# CHW4.3. Linear Systems: Determining the potential at a point in a circuit

Another example of a linear system is a circuit with $N$ power supplies and $N$ resistors in parallel. Let $R_j$ denote the resistance of each resistor and $\mathcal{E}_j$ denote the electromotive force (or EMF) generated by each power supply. Suppose we would like to know the potential difference $V - V_0$ between two points on opposite sides of the circuit, and the $N$ currents $I_j$ (shown in the diagram below) at each branch of this circuit.


We can assume that $V_0 = 0$ and replace $V - V_0$ with $V$ always since only potential difference matters.

Using Ohm's Law for each branch, we obtain $N$ equations:
$$I_j R_j + V = \mathcal{E}_j$$
for $j = 0, \dots, N-1$.

We also obtain one more equation using Kirchhoff's Law:
$$\sum_{j=0}^{N-1} I_j = 0$$

You want to find the vector
$$I = \begin{bmatrix} I_0 \\ I_1 \\ \vdots \\ I_{N-1} \\ V \end{bmatrix}$$
containing the $N$ currents at each branch, and the potential difference between the two sides. That is, we want to solve the linear system:

$$\left[ \text{Matrix } A \right] \begin{bmatrix} I_0 \\ I_1 \\ \vdots \\ I_{N-1} \\ V \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} \mathcal{E}_0 \\ \mathcal{E}_1 \\ \vdots \\ \mathcal{E}_{N-1} \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$$
or
$$AI = \vec{E}$$

given by the above $N + 1$ equations. The first thing you will need to do is determine the matrix $A$ so that the matrix-vector equation $AI = \vec{E}$ is equivalent to the $N+1$ equations obtained from Ohm's Law and Kirchhoff's Law. Then solve the system.

---

### **Hints**
* If you are having trouble making the matrix **A**, try it on paper first for a small $N$. 
* What do you need to put in the first row of **A** so that you get the equation $I_0 R_0 + V = \mathcal{E}_0$? 
* What do you need to put in the last row of **A** to get Kirchhoff's Law?

You are given a number `N` of branches in the circuit, and two corresponding arrays of shape (N,):
* `E`: which contains the $N$ electromotive forces $\mathcal{E}_0, \mathcal{E}_1, \dots, \mathcal{E}_{N-1}$.
* `R`: which contains the $N$ resistances $R_0, R_1, \dots, R_{N-1}$.

The setup code gives the following variables:
| Name | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `N` | int | number of branches |
| `R` | numpy array | array of N resistances |
| `E` | numpy array | array of N EMFs |

Your code snippet should define the following variables:
| Name | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `A` | numpy array | matrix of coefficients for the linear system |
| `I` | numpy array | vector of currents and voltage |

> **Note:** The use of `np.linalg.solve()` or `np.linalg.inv()` is not permitted in this question.

**Solution**
``` python
import numpy as np
import scipy.linalg as sla
E = np.append(E,0) # appends a 0 in to the E matrix as shown above

A = np.zeros((N+1,N+1)) # creates an empty matrix n+1 equation, given the n+1 equations obtained through ohm's law and kirchoff's law

A[:N,:N] = np.diag(R) # diagonals of A are filled with resistances R

A[:N,N] =1 # upper triangle filled with 1s
A[N,:N] =1 #lower triangle filled with 1s

lu, piv = sla.lu_factor(A) # computes the LU decomposition of A and assigns them to the variable to lu. piv explains the shuffling during the process

I = sla.lu_solve((lu,piv),E) # uses the fact that Ly = B and that Ux = y. solves for y first, then solve x, which in this case should be I
```